Classic Jambalaya
 
Print
Prep time
10 mins
Cook time
35 mins
Total time
45 mins
 
: The Daring Gourmet, www.daringgourmet.com
Serves: 4
Ingredients

    2 tablespoons butter
    1 pound chicken breast, cut into bite-sized pieces
    ½ pound andouille sausage, sliced in ¼ inch slices
    1 yellow onion, chopped
    3 cloves garlic, minced
    1 green bell pepper, diced
    1 stalk celery, diced
    1 cup white long grain rice
    1 (14.5 ounce) can diced tomatoes
    2 tablespoons Creole seasoning (see recipe below)
    1-2 teaspoons hot sauce
    1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
    2 cups chicken broth
    2 bay leaves
    ¾ teaspoon salt
    ½ pound medium raw shrimp, deveined (optional: tails removed)
    4 green onions, thinly sliced
    For the Creole Seasoning:
    2 teaspoons garlic powder
    2 teaspoons onion powder
    2 teaspoons sweet paprika powder
    1½ teaspoons dried thyme
    1 teaspoon dried oregano
    1 teaspoon dried basil
    1 teaspoon cayenne pepper
    ¾ teaspoon salt
    ½ teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
    Instructions
    Combine all the spices in a coffee or spice grinder. 
	Grind to a fine powder and store in an airtight jar until ready to use.

Instructions

    Place the chicken in a bowl with 1 tablespoon of the Creole seasoning. Set aside.
	
    Heat the butter in a large skillet over medium-high heat and brown the chicken 
	on all sides. Add the andouille sausage and cook for another 3 minutes or so until 
	the sausage begins to brown.
	
    Add the onion, garlic, celery, and bell pepper and cook for 3-4 minutes. 
	Add the rice, diced tomatoes, remaining tablespoon of Creole seasoning, hot sauce, 
	Worcestershire sauce, salt and pepper and stir to combine. Add the chicken broth 
	and bay leaves.
	
    Bring it to a boil, reduce the heat to medium-low, cover and simmer for 15 minutes, 
	giving it one stir around the halfway point. Add the shrimp, cover, and simmer for 
	another 10 minutes or until the rice is tender.
	
    Serve sprinkled with some sliced green onions.
